Add release notes for v24.2.0-beta.2 (#18755)
cockroachdb/docs: src/current/_includes/releases/v24.2/v24.2.0-beta.2.md

## v24.2.0-beta.2

Release Date: July 24, 2024

{% include releases/new-release-downloads-docker-image.md release=include.release %}

<h3 id="v24-2-0-beta-2-security-updates">Security updates</h3>

- URLs in the following SQL statements are now sanitized of any secrets before being written to [unredacted logs]({% link v24.2/configure-logs.md %}#redact-logs). [#127360][#127360]
- [`ALTER BACKUP SCHEDULE`]({% link v24.2/alter-backup.md %})
- [`ALTER BACKUP`]({% link v24.2/alter-backup.md %})
- [`ALTER CHANGEFEED SET sink`]({% link v24.2/alter-changefeed.md %})
- [`BACKUP`]({% link v24.2/backup.md %})
- [`COPY`]({% link v24.2/copy-from.md %})
- [`CREATE CHANGEFEED`]({% link v24.2/create-changefeed.md %})
- [`CREATE EXTERNAL CONNECTION`]({% link v24.2/create-external-connection.md %})
- [`CREATE SCHEDULE FOR BACKUP`]({% link v24.2/create-schedule-for-backup.md %})
- [`CREATE SCHEDULE FOR CHANGEFEED`]({% link v24.2/create-schedule-for-changefeed.md %})
- [`EXPORT`]({% link v24.2/export.md %})

> - [`IMPORT`]({% link v24.2/import.md %})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`IMPORT`]({% link v24.2/import-into.md %})
```
Should `IMPORT INTO` also be in this list? Should the link text here be updated?

Author: based on looking at [this PR](https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/127360/commits/ee740dde8c73b4c07a0d3e4333e3cf032f6d9678) it changes both `IMPORT` and `IMPORT INTO`, so I'll add `IMPORT INTO` to the list

> - [`IMPORT INTO`]({% link v24.2/import-into.md %})

Reviewer: Just verifying that you intended to remove `IMPORT` in addition to adding `IMPORT INTO`?

Author: apparently there is no more IMPORT page in the v24.2 docs!  TIL

- [`RESTORE`]({% link v24.2/restore.md %})
- [`SHOW BACKUPS`]({% link v24.2/show-backups.md %})
- [`SHOW BACKUP`]({% link v24.2/show-backups.md %})

<h3 id="v24-2-0-beta-2-sql-language-changes">SQL language changes</h3>

> - Added the [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) [`sql.auth.grant_option_for_owner.enabled`](). The default value is `true`, which results in behavior that matches the existing behavior of CockroachDB. When set to `false`, then the [`GRANT OPTION`]({% link v24.2/show-grants.md %}#privilege-grants) is not implicitly given to the owner of an object. The object owner still implicitly has all privileges on the object, just not the ability to grant them to other [users]({% link v24.2/security-reference/authorization#roles.md %}). [#126960][#126960]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The new [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) [`sql.auth.grant_option_for_owner.enabled`]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-sql-auth-grant-option-for-owner-enabled) controls whether the owner of an object has permission to grant permission on the object to other users. When set to `true` (the default), the [`GRANT OPTION`]({% link v24.2/show-grants.md %}#privilege-grants) is is implicitly granted to the object owner, who can grant permissions on the object to other [users]({% link v24.2/security-reference/authorization#roles.md %}), preserving the existing behavior of CockroachDB. When set to `false`, the `GRANT OPTION` is not implicitly given to the owner of an object. The owner's permissions do not change, but they can no longer grant permissions to others unless the `GRANT OPTION` is granted to them explicitly.  [#126960][#126960]
```

Author: thanks this is way better

PS I didn't commit the suggestion via the web UI but I am adding it locally and will be pushing it momentarily

> - Fixed a bug in which the `DISCARD` statement was disallowed when the [session setting]({% link v24.2/session-variables.md %}#default-transaction-read-only) `default_transaction_read_only = on`. [#127364][#127364]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [`DISCARD`]({% link v24.2/discard.md %}) parameter of [`ALTER TABLE`]({% link v24.2/alter-table.md %}#parameters) can now be used in a read-only transaction when the [session setting]({% link v24.2/session-variables.md %}#default-transaction-read-only) `default_transaction_read_only is set to `on`, This matches the behavior of PostgreSQL. [#127364][#127364] [#127364][#127364]
```

Author: AFAICT that's not the 'DISCARD' this PR is referring to - the test is here: https://github.com/cockroachdb/cockroach/pull/127298/commits/2c32e2008fcb4cf815dbf28b19d058facdf10a7e

it's this DISCARD which we don't document, not sure why

https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-discard.html

we have https://cockroachlabs.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-6699 and https://cockroachlabs.atlassian.net/browse/DOC-10475, one of which will require adding some docs for DISCARD, I think

> - The new [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) [`sql.auth.grant_option_for_owner.enabled`]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-sql-auth-grant-option-for-owner-enabled) controls whether the owner of an object has permission to grant permission on the object to other users. When set to `true` (the default), the [`GRANT OPTION`]({% link v24.2/show-grants.md %}#privilege-grants) is is implicitly granted to the object owner, who can grant permissions on the object to other [users]({% link v24.2/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles), preserving the existing behavior of CockroachDB. When set to `false`, the `GRANT OPTION` is not implicitly given to the owner of an object. The owner's permissions do not change, but they can no longer grant permissions to others unless the `GRANT OPTION` is granted to them explicitly.  [#126960][#126960]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The new [cluster setting]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}) [`sql.auth.grant_option_for_owner.enabled`]({% link v24.2/cluster-settings.md %}#setting-sql-auth-grant-option-for-owner-enabled) controls whether the owner of an object has permission to grant permission on the object to other [users]({% link v24.2/security-reference/authorization.md %}#roles). When set to `true` (the default), the [`GRANT OPTION`]({% link v24.2/show-grants.md %}#privilege-grants) is is implicitly granted to the object owner, who can grant permissions on the object to other users, preserving the existing behavior of CockroachDB. When set to `false`, the `GRANT OPTION` is not implicitly given to the owner of an object. The owner's permissions do not change, but they can no longer grant permissions to others unless the `GRANT OPTION` is granted to them explicitly.  [#126960][#126960]
```

<h3 id="v24-2-0-beta-2-bug-fixes">Bug fixes</h3>

> - Fixed a bug that could cause [`CREATE INVERTED INDEX`]({% link v24.2/create-index.md %}#create-gin-indexes) and [`ALTER TABLE ... SET LOCALITY REGIONAL BY ROW`]({% link v24.2/set-locality#set-the-table-locality-to-regional-by-row.md %}) statements to fail if the corresponding tables contained columns with non-standard characters in their names such as tabs or newlines. This bug was present since [inverted indexes]({% link v24.2/inverted-indexes.md %}) were introduced in v2.0. [#126996][#126996]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that could cause [`CREATE INVERTED INDEX`]({% link v24.2/create-index.md %}#create-gin-indexes) and [`ALTER TABLE ... SET LOCALITY REGIONAL BY ROW`]({% link v24.2/set-locality#set-the-table-locality-to-regional-by-row.md %}) statements to fail if the corresponding table contained columns with non-standard characters in their names, such as tabs or newlines. This bug was introduced along with [inverted indexes]({% link v24.2/inverted-indexes.md %}) in v2.0. [#126996][#126996]
```

Author: ✅

> - Fixed a bug that could cause [`CREATE INVERTED INDEX`]({% link v24.2/create-index.md %}#create-gin-indexes) and [`ALTER TABLE ... SET LOCALITY REGIONAL BY ROW`]({% link v24.2/alter-table.md %}#set-the-table-locality-to-regional-by-row) statements to fail if the corresponding table contained columns with non-standard characters in their names such as tabs or newlines. This bug was introduced along with [inverted indexes]({% link v24.2/inverted-indexes.md %}) in v2.0. [#126996][#126996]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed a bug that could cause [`CREATE INVERTED INDEX`]({% link v24.2/create-index.md %}#create-gin-indexes) and [`ALTER TABLE ... SET LOCALITY REGIONAL BY ROW`]({% link v24.2/alter-table.md %}#set-the-table-locality-to-regional-by-row) statements to fail if the corresponding table contained columns with non-standard characters in their names, such as tabs or newlines. This bug was introduced along with [inverted indexes]({% link v24.2/inverted-indexes.md %}) in v2.0. [#126996][#126996]
```

> - Fixed a bug causing [gateway nodes]({% link v24.2/architecture/life-of-a-distributed-transaction.md %}#gateway) to crash while executing [`INSERT`]({% link v24.2/insert.md %}) statements in [`REGIONAL BY ROW`]({% link v24.2/set-locality#set-the-table-locality-to-regional-by-row.md %}) tables. This bug had been present since v23.2. [#127278][#127278]

Author: nice, thanks

> - Fixed a bug where [schema changes]({% link v24.2/online-schema-changes.md %}) could hang if the [lease]({% link v24.2/architecture/replication-layer.md %}#leases) [rangefeed]({% link v24.2/create-and-configure-changefeeds.md %}#enable-rangefeeds) stopped getting updates. [#127488][#127488]

Author: thanks - went with "stopped receiving"
